# Plenary 12 session proposal

*subsections below ready for copy 'n paste into <https://www.rd-alliance.org/12th-plenary-group-session-application-form>*


#### Group name
Provenance Patterns Working Group  


#### Meeting title
Provenance Patterns WG Working meeting


#### Please give a short introduction describing the activities and the scope of the group
*as per Case Statement*  
Tracking provenance for research data is vital to science and scholarship, providing answers to common questions researchers and institutions pose when sharing and exchanging data.

The tasks for this Working Group focus on finding, detailing and recommending best practices for provenance representation and management.

This group will conduct its work in the manner of a business analysis task: identifying business needs and determining solutions to business problems. Since RDA WGs are not themselves research groups (rather groups of researchers and research agencies), this group will look for existing practice and re-present that for use rather than generate new practice.

The main activities of the Working Group are:

* Capturing provenance Use Cases
  * from RDA groups
  * from provenance practitioners generally
* Describing provenance design patterns
  * particularly from established practice
* Listing tools for provenance
* Listing provenance data collections


#### Please provide additional links to informative material related to your group i.e. group page, Case statement, working documents etc
* **WG Home Page**: <https://www.rd-alliance.org/groups/provenance-patterns-wg>
* **Case Statement**: <https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/provenance-patterns-wg/case-statement/working-group-provenance-patterns-case-statement>
* **WG meeting minutes**: <https://github.com/RDAProvPatWG/minutes>
* **Patterns DB**: <https://patterns.promsns.org>. The group uses this system to record *Use Cases*, *Patterns* and *Implementations* of provenance


#### Please list the meeting objectives
  * review of group status
  * presentation work-to-date
    * detailing expected outputs
    * detailing interactions with other provenance-related groups
  * have a discussion about expected progress of WG - final 12 months of WG
  * make initial plans for continued delivery post WG


#### Meeting agenda
1. Welcome and rearticulation of WG Charter - 5 min
  * for new members
2. Work-to-date presentations - 30 min
  1. Presentation: Progression against Charter (chair)
  2. Presentation: Intearactions with other groups
3. Discussion about expected progress - 30 min
4. Discussion about life post WG - 15 min
*15 min buffer unallocated*


#### Audience: Please specify who is your target audience and how they should prepare for the meeting
* Members of the WG
* RDA members not in the WG but interested in provenance
* SciDataCon and other provenance-intereted people

Preparation:
 1. understand our working definition of provenance and relevant standards
   * see in particular Data & Computer Science Provenance within <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Provenance>
 2. read the WG's Charter
 3. consider your research, your colleagues, your institutions & general issues issues
 4. review Use Cases, Patterns & Implementations in our Patterns DB <https://patterns.promsns.org> 


#### Group chair serving as contact person
Nicholas Car (likely)
Dave Dubin (possible)
Paolo Missier (unlikely)

#### Email
Nick's emails

#### Avoid conflict with the following group (1)
Storage Services Definitions WG

#### Avoid conflict with the following group (2)
Vocabulary Services IG

#### Avoid conflict with the following group (3)

#### Estimate of the required room capacity 
5 - 15

#### Type of meeting
Working meeting

#### Group maturity
6-12 months

#### If available, would your group be interested in being assigned an early career / student to support meeting note taking?
Yes - *why not?*

#### Would you like to request support for remote participation in your group meeting?
Yes
